doc/index.rst, before:

.. _home:

.. raw:: html

    <style type="text/css">
    a.image-reference {
        border-bottom: None;
    }

    a.image-reference:hover {
        border-bottom: None;
    }

    .figure {
        float: left;
        margin: 10px;
        margin-bottom: 1px;
        width: auto;
        height: 140px;
        width: 200px;
    }

    .figure img {
        display: inline;
        }

    </style>

Documentation of windML 
======================

.. .. topic:: Machine learning library for wind energy information systems. 

The windML framework provides an easy-to-use access to several wind data sources within the **Python** world, building upon `numpy <http://numpy.scipy.org/>`_ [1]_, `scipy <http://scipy.org>`_ [1]_, and `matplotlib <http://matplotlib.org>`_ [2]_. As a machine-learning module, it provides versatile tools several learning tasks like time-series prediction, classification, clustering, dimensionality reduction, and related tasks. For further information including the motivation for windML, see :ref:`about`.

Getting Started
---------------

For a guide to installation, an overview of the architecture and the functionalities of windML please visit the :ref:`gettingstarted` page. For a formal description of the applied techniques, see :ref:`techniques`. The :ref:`examples` gallery illustrates the coverage of the main functionalities.  

.. figure:: ./_images/show_flip_book_1_thumb.png
    :target: ./examples/show_flip_book.html

.. figure:: ./_images/svr_regression_mill_1_thumb.png
    :target: ./examples/svr_regression_mill.html

.. figure:: ./_images/wind_embeddings_1_thumb.png
    :target: ./examples/wind_embeddings.html

Brief Example
-------------

Here's a brief example of how to forecast using a KNN regressor. For a further list of examples with plots check out the example page, see :ref:`examples`. ::

    from windml.datasets.nrel import NREL
    from windml.mapping.power_mapping import PowerMapping
    from sklearn.neighbors import KNeighborsRegressor
    import math

    windpark = NREL().get_windpark(NREL.park_id['tehachapi'], 3, 2004, 2005)
    target = windpark.get_target()

    feature_window, horizon = 3, 3
    mapping = PowerMapping()
    X = mapping.get_features_park(windpark, feature_window, horizon)
    Y = mapping.get_labels_mill(target, feature_window, horizon)
    reg = KNeighborsRegressor(10, 'uniform')

    train_to, test_to = int(math.floor(len(X) * 0.5)), len(X)
    train_step, test_step = 5, 5
    reg = reg.fit(X[0:train_to:train_step], Y[0:train_to:train_step])
    y_hat = reg.predict(X[train_to:test_to:test_step])

User Guide
----------

.. toctree::
    about
    gettingstarted
    techniques
    components
    genindex
    modindex
    search
    examples/index

Contributors
------------

The windML framework is developed by Fabian Gieseke, Justin P. Heinermann, Oliver Kramer, Jendrik Poloczek, Nils A. Treiber. 

.. [1] Travis E. Oliphant (2007).  Python for Scientific Computing. Computing in Science & Engineering 9, IEEE Soc.
.. [2] Hunter, J.  D. (2007). Matplotlib: A 2D graphics environment. Computing In Science & Engineering 9, IEEE Soc., pp. 90-95

Commit message:

removed toc tree on index page; added university credit

doc/index.rst, after:

.. _home:

.. raw:: html

    <style type="text/css">
    a.image-reference {
        border-bottom: None;
    }

    a.image-reference:hover {
        border-bottom: None;
    }

    .figure {
        float: left;
        margin: 10px;
        margin-bottom: 1px;
        width: auto;
        height: 140px;
        width: 200px;
    }

    .figure img {
        display: inline;
        }

    </style>

Documentation of windML 
======================

.. .. topic:: Machine learning library for wind energy information systems. 

The windML framework provides an easy-to-use access to several wind data sources within the **Python** world, building upon `numpy <http://numpy.scipy.org/>`_ [1]_, `scipy <http://scipy.org>`_ [1]_, and `matplotlib <http://matplotlib.org>`_ [2]_. As a machine-learning module, it provides versatile tools several learning tasks like time-series prediction, classification, clustering, dimensionality reduction, and related tasks. For further information including the motivation for windML, see :ref:`about`.

Getting Started
---------------

For a guide to installation, an overview of the architecture and the functionalities of windML please visit the :ref:`gettingstarted` page. For a formal description of the applied techniques, see :ref:`techniques`. The :ref:`examples` gallery illustrates the coverage of the main functionalities.  

.. figure:: ./_images/show_flip_book_1_thumb.png
    :target: ./examples/show_flip_book.html

.. figure:: ./_images/svr_regression_mill_1_thumb.png
    :target: ./examples/svr_regression_mill.html

.. figure:: ./_images/wind_embeddings_1_thumb.png
    :target: ./examples/wind_embeddings.html

Brief Example
-------------

Here's a brief example of how to forecast using a KNN regressor. For a further list of examples with plots check out the example page, see :ref:`examples`. ::

    from windml.datasets.nrel import NREL
    from windml.mapping.power_mapping import PowerMapping
    from sklearn.neighbors import KNeighborsRegressor
    import math

    windpark = NREL().get_windpark(NREL.park_id['tehachapi'], 3, 2004, 2005)
    target = windpark.get_target()

    feature_window, horizon = 3, 3
    mapping = PowerMapping()
    X = mapping.get_features_park(windpark, feature_window, horizon)
    Y = mapping.get_labels_mill(target, feature_window, horizon)
    reg = KNeighborsRegressor(10, 'uniform')

    train_to, test_to = int(math.floor(len(X) * 0.5)), len(X)
    train_step, test_step = 5, 5
    reg = reg.fit(X[0:train_to:train_step], Y[0:train_to:train_step])
    y_hat = reg.predict(X[train_to:test_to:test_step])

Contributors
------------

The windML framework is developed by the Computational Intelligence Group of the University in Oldenburg. The contributors are Fabian Gieseke, Justin P. Heinermann, Oliver Kramer, Jendrik Poloczek, Nils A. Treiber. 

.. [1] Travis E. Oliphant (2007).  Python for Scientific Computing. Computing in Science & Engineering 9, IEEE Soc.
.. [2] Hunter, J.  D. (2007). Matplotlib: A 2D graphics environment. Computing In Science & Engineering 9, IEEE Soc., pp. 90-95
